# April 22, 2022 Lecture Notes

## Custom Array List

## SOLID Principle
The SOLID principles were introduced by Robert C. Martin in his 2000 paper “Design Principles and Design Patterns.” These concepts were later built upon by Michael Feathers, who introduced us to the SOLID acronym. And in the last 20 years, these five principles have revolutionized the world of object-oriented programming, changing the way that we write software.

1. Single Responsibility
2. Open/Closed
3. Liskov Substitution
4. Interface Segregation
5. Dependency Inversion

### Solid
a class should only have one responsibility. Furthermore, it should only have one reason to change.

* Testing – A class with one responsibility will have far fewer test cases.
* Lower coupling – Less functionality in a single class will have fewer dependencies.
* Organization – Smaller, well-organized classes are easier to search than monolithic ones.

### Open for Extension, Closed for Modification
Classes should be open for extension but closed for modification. In doing so, we stop ourselves from modifying existing code and causing potential new bugs.

> one exception to the rule is when fixing bugs in existing code.

### Liskov Substitution
If class A is a subtype of class B, we should be able to replace B with A without disrupting the behavior of our program.

```
public interface Car {

    void turnOnEngine();
    void accelerate();
}

public class MotorCar implements Car {

    private Engine engine;

    //Constructors, getters + setters

    public void turnOnEngine() {
        //turn on the engine!
        engine.on();
    }

    public void accelerate() {
        //move forward!
        engine.powerOn(1000);
    }
}

public class ElectricCar implements Car {

    public void turnOnEngine() {
        throw new AssertionError("I don't have an engine!");
    }

    public void accelerate() {
        //this acceleration is crazy!
    }
}
```
>This is a blatant violation of Liskov substitution and is a bit harder to fix than our previous two principles.
>
> One possible solution would be to rework our model into interfaces that take into account the engine-less state of our Car.

### Interface Segregation
larger interfaces should be split into smaller ones. By doing so, we can ensure that implementing classes only need to be concerned about the methods that are of interest to them.

```
public interface BearKeeper {
    void washTheBear();
    void feedTheBear();
    void petTheBear();
}

public interface BearCleaner {
    void washTheBear();
}

public interface BearFeeder {
    void feedTheBear();
}

public interface BearPetter {
    void petTheBear();
}

public class BearCarer implements BearCleaner, BearFeeder {

    public void washTheBear() {
        //I think we missed a spot...
    }

    public void feedTheBear() {
        //Tuna Tuesdays...
    }
}

public class CrazyPerson implements BearPetter {

    public void petTheBear() {
        //Good luck with that!
    }
}
```

### Dependency Inversion
The principle of dependency inversion refers to the decoupling of software modules. This way, instead of high-level modules depending on low-level modules, both will depend on abstractions.

[A Solid Guide to SOLID Principles](https://www.baeldung.com/solid-principles#i)

## SDLC
The software development life-cycle: phase breakdown

SDLC: Overview

1. Plamning - stakeholders come together to decide what the project is.
2. Requirement Analysis - Leads will specify what the project will need in order to be dveloped.
3. System Design - Mark up flow charts for how the application would flow and how user's would interact (ERD diagrams, etc.)
4. Development - Developer would code out the application.
5. Testing & Deployment - unit and implementation phase
6. Maintenance - continuous phase after release; developer address any bugs reported to them.

## Moking with Mockito
### Maven
Maven is a build management tool that allows the use of external dependencies in Java projects.
Build Automation tool making creation of projects easier.

**Dependency** - archive of classes/libraries that can be used in Java projects.

>ex. Mockito (a mokcing framework that can be used to mock or clone classes that handle real data)

* Mocking the data layer in a Java application to fully test the service classes for functionality (used in Data Access Object Design Pattern aka DAO D.P.).
* Stub - testable version of a particular object
* Mock - just a clone of that particular object that is used to test behavior to make sure that methods are being called corerctly
